Building Blocks
A Region is a physical location in the world that consists of two or more Availability Zones (AZs). 
An AZ is one or more discrete data centers — each with redundant power, networking, and connectivity — housed in separate facilities. 
Edge locations are endpoints for AWS that are used for caching content. Typically, this consists of CloudFront, Amazon’s CDN.

Who Owns What in the Cloud?
Can you do this yourself in the AWS Management Console? 
If yes, you are likely responsible. 
Eg. Security groups, IAM users, patching EC2 operating systems, patching databases running on EC2, etc. 

If not, AWS is likely responsible. 
Eg. Management of data centers, security cameras, cabling, patching RDS operating systems, etc. Encryption is a shared responsibility.

Key Services to Know 
Compute: EC2, Lambda, Elastic Beanstalk 
Storage: S3, EBS, EFS, FSx, Storage Gateway 
Databases: RDS, DynamoDB, Redshift 
Networking: VPCs, Direct Connect, Route 53, API Gateway, AWS Global Accelerator

Six Pillars of the Well-Architected Framework  
Operational Excellence - Running and monitoring systems to deliver business value, and continually improving processes and procedures
Security - Protecting information and systems
Reliability -  Ensuring a workload performs its intended function correctly and consistently when it’s expected to 
Performance Efficiency - Using IT and computing resources efficiently
Cost Optimization - Avoiding unnecessary costs 
Sustainability - Minimizing the environmental impacts of running cloud workloads


IAM 
4 Steps to Secure Your AWS Root Account
Enable multi-factor authentication on the root account. 
Create an admin group for your administrators, and assign the appropriate permissions to this group. 
Create user accounts for your administrators. 
Add your users to the admin group

Assign Permissions Using IAM Policy Documents Consisting of JSON to users, groups and roles 

IAM is Universal: It does not apply to regions at this time. 
The Root Account: The account created when you first set up your AWS account and which has complete admin access. Secure it as soon as possible and do not use it to log in day to day. 
New Users: No permissions when first created.
Access key ID and secret access keys are not the same as usernames and passwords. You only get to view these once. If you lose them, you have to regenerate them. So, save them in a secure location. 
Always set up password rotations. You can create and customize your own password rotation policies.
IAM Federation: You can combine your existing user account with AWS. For example, when you log on to your PC (usually using Microsoft Active Directory), you can use the same credentials to log in to AWS if you set up federation. 
Identity Federation: Uses the SAML standard, which is Active Directory.

S3 

Object Based - Object-based storage allows you to upload files.
Not OS or DB Storage - Not suitable to install an operating system or run a database on.
Files up to 5 TB - Files can be from 0 bytes to 5 TB. 
Unlimited Storage - The total volume of data and the number of objects you can store is unlimited. 

Files Stored in Buckets
S3 is a universal namespace.
Successful CLI or API uploads will generate an HTTP 200 status code.

S3 Object Tips 

Key - The object name (e.g., Ralphie.jpg) 
Value - The data itself, which is made up of a sequence of bytes  
Version ID - Allows you to store multiple versions of the same object  
Metadata - Data about the data you are storing (e.g., content-type, last-modified, etc.)

Buckets are private by default: When you create an S3 bucket, it is private by default (including all objects within it). You have to allow public access on both the bucket and its objects in order to make the bucket public.

Object ACLs: You can make individual objects public using object ACLs.

Bucket policies: You can make entire buckets public using bucket policies.

HTTP status code: When you upload an object to S3 and it’s successful, you will receive an HTTP 200 code.

Bucket Policies: Make entire buckets public using bucket policies

Static Content: Use S3 to host static content only (not dynamic)

Automatic Scaling: S3 scales automatically with demand

S3 Versioning 

All Versions: All versions of an object are stored in S3. This includes all writes and even if you delete an object.
Backup: Can be a great backup tool.
Cannot Be Disabled: Once enabled, versioning cannot be disabled — only suspended.
Lifecycle Rules: Can be integrated with lifecycle rules.
Supports MFA: Can support multi-factor authentication.

S3 Storage Classes  (Please explain in brief with the use case - not more than 4-5 lines each)

S3 Standard 
S3 IntelligentTiering
S3 Standard-IA
S3 One Zone-IA
S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval
S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval
S3 Glacier Deep Archive

LifeCycle management with S3
Automates moving objects between different storage tiers
Can be used in conjunction with versioning.
Can be applied to current versions and previous versions.

S3 OBJECT LOCK AND GLACIER VAULT LOCK
Use S3 Object Lock to store objects using a write once, read many (WORM) model
Object Lock can be on individual objects or applied across the bucket as a whole
Object Lock comes in two modes: governance mode and compliance mode.

Compliance Mode - With compliance mode, a protected object version can’t be overwritten or deleted by any user, including the root user in your AWS account.

Governance Mode - With governance mode, users can’t overwrite or delete an object version or alter its lock settings unless they have special permissions.

ENCRYPTING S3 OBJECTS

Encryption in Transit - SSL/TLS, HTTPS
Encryption at Rest: SSE - Server-side encryption, SSE-S3 (AES 256-bit), SSE-KMS, SSE-C
Client-Side Encryption - You encrypt the files yourself before you upload them to S3.
Enforcing Encryption with a Bucket Policy - A bucket policy can deny all PUT requests that don’t include the x-amz-server-sideencryption parameter in the request header.

BACKING UP DATA WITH S3 REPLICATION
You can replicate objects from one bucket to another.
Objects in an existing bucket are not replicated automatically
Delete markers are not replicated by default.

EC2

EC2 is like a VM, hosted in AWS instead of your own data center.
Select the capacity you need right now. Grow and shrink when you need. Pay for what you use. Wait minutes, not months.

On-Demand - Pay by the hour or the second, depending on the type of instance you run. Great for flexibility.
Spot - Purchase unused capacity at a discount of up to 90%. Prices fluctuate with supply and demand. Great for applications with flexible start and end times.
Reserved - Reserved capacity for 1 or 3 years. Up to 72% discount on the hourly charge. Great if you have known, fixed requirements.
Dedicated - A physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. Great if you have server-bound licenses to reuse or compliance requirements.

AWS CLI
Least Privilege - Always give your users the minimum amount of access required to do their job.
Use Groups - Create IAM groups and assign your users to groups. Group permissions are assigned using IAM policy documents. Your users will automatically inherit the permissions of the group.

Secret Access Key - You will only see this once! If you lose it, you can delete the access key ID and secret access key and regenerate them. You will need to run aws configure again.
Don’t Share Key Pairs - Each developer should have their own access key ID and secret access key. Just like passwords, they should not be shared. 

Supports Linux, Windows, MacOS - You can install the CLI on your Mac, Linux, or Windows PC. You can also use it on EC2 instances.

The Preferred Option - Roles are preferred from a security perspective.
Avoid Hard-Coding Your Credentials - Roles allow you to provide access without the use of access key IDs and secret access keys.
Policies - Policies control a role’s permissions.
Updates - You can update a policy attached to a role, and it will take immediate effect.
Attaching and Detaching - You can attach and detach roles to running EC2 instances without having to stop or terminate those instances.

Security Groups 
Changes to security groups take effect immediately.
You can have any number of EC2 instances within a security group
You can have multiple security groups attached to EC2 instances
All inbound traffic is blocked by default.
All outbound traffic is allowed.

Bootstrap Scripts - A bootstrap script is a script that runs when the instance first runs. It passes user data to the EC2 instance and can be used to install applications (like web servers and databases), as well as do updates and more.

User Data vs. Metadata
User data is simply bootstrap scripts
Metadata is data about your EC2 instances.
You can use bootstrap scripts (user data) to access metadata

Networking with EC2 
ENI - For basic networking. Perhaps you need a separate management network from your production network or a separate logging network, and you need to do this at a low cost. In this scenario, use multiple ENIs for each network.
Enhanced Networking - For when you need speeds between 10 Gbps and 100 Gbps. Anywhere you need reliable, high throughput
EFA - For when you need to accelerate High Performance Computing (HPC) and machine learning applications or if you need to do an OS-bypass. If you see a scenario question mentioning HPC or ML and asking what network adapter you want, choose EFA.

EC2 instance type 
On-Demand - Pay by the hour or the second, depending on the type of instance you run. 
Reserved - Reserved capacity for 1 or 3 years. Up to 72% discount on the hourly charge.
Spot - Purchase unused capacity at a discount of up to 90%. Prices fluctuate with supply and demand.
Dedicated - A physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. The most expensive option.

Spot Instances save up to 90% of the cost of On-Demand instances.
Useful for any type of computing where you don’t need persistent storage.
You can block Spot Instances from terminating by using a Spot block.
A Spot Fleet is a collection of Spot Instances and (optionally) On-Demand instances.

Scenario about extending AWS to your data center? Think AWS Outposts.

===================

EBS 

Learning EBS SSD Volumes - Highly available and scalable storage volumes you can attach to an EC2 instance.

Gp2 (General Purpose SSD) - Suitable for boot disks and general applications • Up to 16,000 IOPS per volume • Up to 99.9% durability
Gp3 (General Purpose SSD) - Suitable for high performance applications • Predictable 3,000 IOPS baseline performance and 125 MiB/s regardless of volume size • Up to 99.9% durability
Io1  (Provisioned IOPS SSD) - Suitable for OLTP and latency-sensitive applications • 50 IOPS/GiB • Up to 64,000 IOPS per volume • High performance and most expensive • Up to 99.9% durability
Io2 (Provisioned IOPS SSD) - Suitable for OLTP and latency-sensitive applications • 500 IOPS/GiB • Up to 64,000 IOPS per volume • 99.999% durability • Latest generation Provisioned IOPS volume

EBS HDD Volumes - Highly available and scalable storage volumes you can attach to an EC2 instance.
st1 (Throughput Optimized HDD) - Suitable for big data, data warehouses, and ETL • Max throughput is 500 MB/s per volume • Cannot be a boot volume • Up to 99.9% durability
sc1 (Cold HDD) - Max throughput of 250 MB/s per volume • Less frequently accessed data • Cannot be a boot volume • Lowest cost • Up to 99.9% durability

Volumes & Snapshot 
Volumes exist on EBS, whereas snapshots exist on S3. 
Snapshots are point-in-time photographs of volumes and are incremental in nature. 
The first snapshot will take some time to create. For consistent snapshots, stop the instance and detach the volume. 
You can share snapshots between AWS accounts as well as between regions, but first you need to copy that snapshot to the target region. 
You can resize EBS volumes on the fly as well as changing the volume types.

Amazon Machine Images: EBS vs. Instance Store
An AMI is just a blueprint for an EC2 instance.
Instance store volumes are sometimes called ephemeral storage.
Instance store volumes cannot be stopped. If the underlying host fails, you will lose your data.
EBS-backed instances can be stopped. You will not lose the data on this instance if it is stopped
You can reboot both EBS and instance store volumes and you will not lose your data
By default, both root volumes will be deleted on termination. However, with EBS volumes, you can tell AWS to keep the root device volume.

Protecting EBS Volumes with Encryption
Data at rest is encrypted inside the volume. 
All data in flight moving between the instance and the volume is encrypted. 
All snapshots are encrypted. 
All volumes created from the snapshot are encrypted.

How to Encrypt Volumes
Create a snapshot of the unencrypted root device volume. 
Create a copy of the snapshot and select the encrypt option. 
Create an AMI from the encrypted snapshot. 
Use that AMI to launch new encrypted instances.

AWS BACKUP
Consolidation: Use AWS Backup to back up AWS services, such as EC2, EBS, EFS, Amazon FSx for Lustre, Amazon FSx for Windows File Server, and AWS Storage Gateway.
Organizations: You can use AWS Organizations in conjunction with AWS Backup to back up your different AWS services across multiple AWS accounts.
Benefits: Backup gives you centralized control, letting you automate your backups and define lifecycle policies for your data. You get better compliance, as you can enforce your backup policies, ensure your backups are encrypted, and audit them once complete.

=========================
Relational Database Service (RDS Overview)
RDS Database Types - SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB, and Amazon Aurora
RDS Is for OLTP Workloads - Great for processing lots of small transactions, like customer orders, banking transactions, payments, and booking systems.
Not Suitable for OLAP Workloads - Use Redshift for data warehousing and OLAP tasks, like analyzing large amounts of data, reporting, and sales forecasting.

Increasing Read Performance with Read Replicas
Multi-AZ - An exact copy of your production database in another Availability Zone. • Used for disaster recovery. • In the event of a failure, RDS will automatically fail over to the standby instance.

Read Replica - A read-only copy of your primary database in the same AZ, cross-AZ, or cross-region. • Used to increase or scale read performance. • Great for read-heavy workloads and takes the load off your primary database for read-only workloads (e.g., Business Intelligence reporting jobs).

What Is Amazon Aurora?
2 copies of your data are contained in each Availability Zone, with a minimum of 3 Availability Zones. 6 copies of your data. 
You can share Aurora snapshots with other AWS accounts. 
3 types of replicas available: Aurora replicas, MySQL replicas, and PostgreSQL replicas. Automated failover is only available with Aurora replicas. Aurora has automated backups turned on by default. You can also take snapshots with Aurora. You can share these snapshots with other AWS accounts. 
Aurora Serverless if you want a simple, costeffective option for infrequent, intermittent, or unpredictable workloads.

Dynamo DB overview 
What Is DynamoDB? Amazon DynamoDB is a fast and flexible NoSQL database service for all applications that need consistent, single-digit millisecond latency at any scale. It is a fully managed database and supports both document and key-value data models. Its flexible data model and reliable performance make it a great fit for mobile, web, gaming, ad-tech, IoT, and many other applications

Neptune is Amazon’s graph database service. Neptune is a fast, reliable, fully managed graph database service that makes it easy to build and run applications.

=============

VPC 

Think of a VPC as a logical data center in AWS.
Consists of internet gateways (or virtual private gateways), route tables, network access control lists, subnets, and security groups
1 subnet is always in 1 Availability Zone
Additionally, you can create a hardware Virtual Private Network (VPN) connection between your corporate data center and your VPC and leverage the AWS Cloud as an extension of your corporate data center.

Using NAT Gateways for Internet Access

Redundant inside the Availability Zone 
Starts at 5 Gbps and scales currently to 45 Gbps 
No need to patch 
Not associated with security groups 
Automatically assigned a public IP address

High Availability with NAT Gateways If you have resources in multiple Availability Zones and they share a NAT gateway, in the event that the NAT gateway’s Availability Zone is down, resources in the other Availability Zones lose internet access. To create an Availability Zone-independent architecture, create a NAT gateway in each Availability Zone and configure your routing to ensure resources use the NAT gateway in the same Availability Zone

Security Groups Security groups are stateful — if you send a request from your instance, the response traffic for that request is allowed to flow in regardless of inbound security group rules. Responses to allowed inbound traffic are allowed to flow out, regardless of outbound rules.

NACL

Default Network ACLs: Your VPC automatically comes with a default network ACL, and by default it allows all outbound and inbound traffic.
Custom Network ACLs: You can create custom network ACLs. By default, each custom network ACL denies all inbound and outbound traffic until you add rules.
Subnet Associations: Each subnet in your VPC must be associated with a network ACL. If you don’t explicitly associate a subnet with a network ACL, the subnet is automatically associated with the default network ACL.
Block IP Addresses: Block IP addresses using network ACLs, not security groups

You can associate a network ACL with multiple subnets; however, a subnet can be associated with only 1 network ACL at a time. When you associate a network ACL with a subnet, the previous association is removed

Network ACLs contain a numbered list of rules that are evaluated in order, starting with the lowest numbered rule.

Network ACLs have separate inbound and outbound rules, and each rule can either allow or deny traffic.

Network ACLs are stateless; responses to allowed inbound traffic are subject to the rules for outbound traffic (and vice versa).

VPC Endpoints

Use Case: When you want to connect AWS services without leaving the Amazon internal network
2 Types of VPC Endpoints: Interface endpoints and gateway endpoints
Gateway Endpoints: Support S3 and DynamoDB

VPC Peering
Allows you to connect 1 VPC with another via a direct network route using private IP addresses.
Transitive peering is not supported. This must always be in a hub-and-spoke model.
You can peer between regions.
No overlapping CIDR address ranges

AWS PrivateLink
If you see a question asking about peering VPCs to tens, hundreds, or thousands of customer VPCs, think of AWS PrivateLink.
Doesn’t require VPC peering; no route tables, NAT gateways, internet gateways, etc
Requires a Network Load Balancer on the service VPC and an ENI on the customer VPC.

AWS VPN CloudHub If you have multiple sites, each with its own VPN connection, you can use AWS VPN CloudHub to connect those sites together. It’s similar to VPC peering in that it works on a hub-and-spoke model. AWS VPN CloudHub is low cost and easy to manage. Though it operates over the public internet, all traffic between the customer gateway and the AWS VPN CloudHub is encrypted.

Direct Connect
Direct Connect directly connects your data center to AWS
Useful for high-throughput workloads (e.g., lots of network traffic)
Helpful when you need a stable and reliable secure connection

VPNs vs. Direct Connect VPNs allow private communication, but it still traverses the public internet to get the data delivered. While secure, it can be painfully slow. DIRECT CONNECT IS: Fast Secure Reliable Able to take massive throughput

Simplifying Networks with Transit Gateway
Transit Gateway AWS Transit Gateway connects VPCs and on-premises networks through a central hub. This simplifies your network and puts an end to complex peering relationships. It acts as a cloud router — each new connection is only made once.

Allows you to have transitive peering between thousands of VPCs and on-premises data centers. Works on a hub-and-spoke model. Works on a regional basis, but you can have it across multiple regions. You can use it across multiple AWS accounts using RAM (Resource Access Manager).

Transit Gateway Exam Tips You can use route tables to limit how VPCs talk to one another. Works with Direct Connect as well as VPN connections. Supports IP multicast (not supported by any other AWS service).

==========================
Route53 

What Is Route 53? Route 53 is Amazon’s DNS service. It allows you to register domain names, create hosted zones, and manage and create DNS records. Route 53 is named after Route 66 (one of the original highways across the United States) but is called 53 because DNS operates on port 53.

Types of Route53
Simple Routing Policy If you choose the simple routing policy, you can only have one record with multiple IP addresses. If you specify multiple values in a record, Route 53 returns all values to the user in a random order.

Weighted Routing Policy - In this example, Route 53 sent 20% of the traffic to us-east-1 and 80% of the traffic to us-west-1.

Health Checks You can set health checks on individual record sets. If a record set fails a health check, it will be removed from Route 53 until it passes the health check. You can set SNS notifications to alert you about failed health checks.

Latency Routing - Route 53 sent the traffic to eu-west-2 because it has a much lower latency than ap-southeast-2.

Failover Routing Policy - Route 53 will send the traffic to ap-southeast-2 because it has detected a failure in eu-west-2.
Failover Routing Policy A health check monitors the health of your endpoints. Failover routing policies are used when you want to create an active/passive setup. For example, you may want your primary site to be in eu-west-2 and your secondary disaster recovery site in ap-southeast-2. Route 53 will monitor the health of your primary site using a health check.

Geolocation Routing Policy In this example, Route 53 will send the European customers to eu-west-1 and the US customers to us-east-1

Geoproximity Routing Policy Geoproximity routing lets Amazon Route 53 route traffic to your resources based on the geographic location of your users and your resources. You can also optionally choose to route more traffic or less to a given resource by specifying a value, known as a bias. A bias expands or shrinks the size of the geographic region from which traffic is routed to a resource. Exam Tips DEMO: USING A GEOPROXIMITY ROUTING POLICY To use geoproximity routing, you must use Route 53 traffic flow.

Multivalue Answer Routing - SIMILAR TO SIMPLE ROUTING This is similar to simple routing; however, it allows you to put health checks on each record set.

===============

ELB Overview 

Remember the Different ELB Types Application Load Balancers Network Load Balancers Classic Load Balancers

Health Checks You can use health checks to route your traffic to instances or targets that are healthy

Application Load Balancers
Limitations of Application Load Balancers Application Load Balancers only support HTTP and HTTPS.
Application Load Balancers Listeners: A listener checks for connection requests from clients, using the protocol and port you configure. Rules: Determine how the load balancer routes requests to its registered targets. Each rule consists of a priority, one or more actions, and one or more conditions. Target Groups: Each target group routes requests to one or more registered targets, such as EC2 instances, using the protocol and port number you specify
Application Load Balancers Limitations: Application Load Balancers only support HTTP and HTTPS. HTTPS: To use an HTTPS listener, you must deploy at least one SSL/TLS server certificate on your load balancer. The load balancer uses a server certificate to terminate the frontend connection and then decrypt requests from clients before sending them to the targets

Network Load Balancers
Use Cases Network Load Balancers are best suited for load balancing of TCP traffic where extreme performance is required. Operating at the connection level (Layer 4), Network Load Balancers are capable of handling millions of requests per second, while maintaining ultra-low latencies. Use for extreme performance!

Network Load Balancers operate at Layer 4. Use where you need extreme performance. Other use cases are where you need protocols not supported by Application Load Balancers. Network Load Balancers can decrypt traffic, but you will need to install the certificate on the load balancer

Classic Load Balancers
Classic Load Balancers are the legacy load balancers. You can load balance HTTP/ HTTPS applications and use Layer 7- specific features, such as X Forwarded and sticky sessions. You can also use strict Layer 4 load balancing for applications that rely purely on the TCP protocol

Classic Load Balancer A 504 error means the gateway has timed out. This means the application is not responding within the idle timeout period. Troubleshoot the application. Is it the web server or database server? Need the IPv4 address of your end user? Look for the X-Forwarded-For header

Application Load Balancers You can enable sticky sessions for Application Load Balancers as well, but the traffic will be sent at the target group level

Sticky Sessions Sticky sessions enable your users to stick to the same EC2 instance. Can be useful if you are storing information locally to that instance. You may see a scenario-based question where you remove an EC2 instance from a pool, but the load balancer continues to direct traffic to that EC2 instance. Exam Tips GETTING “STUCK” WITH STICKY SESSIONS To solve a scenario like this, disable sticky sessions.

Deregistration Delay Exam Tips Enable deregistration delay: Keep existing connections open if the EC2 instance becomes unhealthy. Disable deregistration delay: Do this if you want your load balancer to immediately close connections to the instances that are deregistering or have become unhealthy.

==========================
Cloudwatch 

What Is CloudWatch? CloudWatch is a monitoring and observability platform that was designed to give us insight into our AWS architecture. It allows us to monitor multiple levels of our applications and identify potential issues.

CloudWatch Features System Metrics Application Metrics Alarms What can CloudWatch do? These are metrics that you get out of the box. The more managed the service is, the more you get. By installing the CloudWatch agent, you can get information from inside your EC2 instances. What’s the point of collecting data if you don’t do something with it? Alarms can alert you when something goes wrong.

Anytime monitoring comes up, think CloudWatch.
There are no default alarms. Anything you want to hear about must be created.
AWS can’t see past the hypervisor level for EC2 instances
The more managed a service is, the more checks you get out of the box.
Standard is 5-minute intervals, whereas detailed is 1-minute

What Is CloudWatch Logs? CloudWatch Logs is a tool that allows you to monitor, store, and access log files from a variety of different sources. It gives you the ability to query your logs to look for potential issues or data that is relevant to you.

Logs Should Go to CloudWatch Logs Except for situations where we don’t need to process them. Then, they should go straight to S3. You’ll need to have a high-level understanding of what services act as a source for CloudWatch Logs

Generally, favor CloudWatch Logs, unless the exam asks for a real-time solution.
CloudWatch alarms can be used to alert if the filter patterns are found
The CloudWatch agent must be installed and configured. It’s not automatic.
If the exam mentions SQL, think CloudWatch Logs Insights

What Is Amazon Managed Grafana? Fully managed service for data visualization. Allows instant querying, correlating, and visualizing of metrics, logs, and traces

What Is Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus? Serverless, Prometheus-compatible service used for securely monitoring container metrics at scale

Security and Scaling - Both services let AWS handle the high availability and automatic scaling of infrastructure. Leverage VPC endpoints for secure VPC access.

Grafana Data Sources - Several built-in data sources, including Amazon CloudWatch, Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus, and AWS X-Ray

Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus Uses - Leverage the service for Amazon EKS clusters or even self-managed Kubernetes clusters.

Amazon Managed Grafana Uses - Container metric visualizations (EKS, ECS, or self-hosted Kubernetes clusters), IoT edge device data, and operational teams.

====================

Horizontal and Vertical Scaling 
What Is a Launch Template? A launch template specifies all the needed settings that go into building out an EC2 instance. It is a collection of settings you can configure so you don’t have to walk through the EC2 wizard over and over

Launch Template vs Launch Configuration 
Launch Template - More than just autoscaling • Supports versioning • More granularity • AWS recommended
Launch Configuration - Only for autoscaling • Immutable • Limited configuration options • Don’t use them

What Makes a Template? On the exam, it’s critical to understand what goes into a launch template. You need to know it includes the AMI, EC2 instance size, security groups, and potentially networking information.

Launch Templates - The most up-to-date and flexible way to create a template
Launch Configurations - The older version. It’s not “wrong” to use them, but if possible, use templates.
User Data - User data is included in the template or configuration.
Change - Can be versioned. Configurations are immutable.
Networking - Configurations don’t include networking information. Templates could.

Auto Scaling Groups
Networking - Auto Scaling groups will contain the location of where your instances will live.
Remember ELB - It’s vital to select a load balancer for the instances to live behind.
Limits - Min, max, and desired are the 3 most important settings.
Notifications - SNS can act as a notification tool.
Balancing - Auto Scaling will balance your EC2 instances across the Availability Zones

Auto Scaling Policies
Scale Out Aggressively - Get ahead of the workload.
Scale In Conservatively - Once the instances are up, slowly roll them back when not needed
Provisioning - Keep an eye on provisioning times. Bake those AMIs to minimize it.
Costs - Use EC2 RIs for minimum count of EC2 instances.
CloudWatch - Your no. 1 tool for alerting Auto Scaling that you need more or less of something.


===============
SQS 

What Is SQS? Simple Queue Service is a messaging queue that allows asynchronous processing of work. One resource will write a message to an SQS queue, and then another resource will retrieve that message from SQS.

SQS Settings
Delivery Delay - Default is 0; can be set up to 15 minutes
Message Size - Messages can be up to 256 KB of text in any format.
Encryption - Messages are encrypted in transit by default, but you can add at-rest
Message Retention - Default is 4 days; can be set between 1 minute and 14 days.
Long vs. Short - Long polling isn’t the default, but it should be.
Queue Depth - This can be a trigger for autoscaling.

Dead-Letter Queues
Monitor, Monitor, Monitor - Make sure you set up an alarm and alert on queue depth.
It’s Not Special - DLQs are just SQS queues that are set to receive the reject messages.
Same Retention Window - Messages will be held up to 14 days.
Usable with SNS - You can create SQS DLQ for SNS topics.

FIFO Is the Only Option If you ever see a scenario talking about message ordering, scan for answers that include FIFO. While there are other ways to enforce message ordering, FIFO is the only way it would come up on the exam.

FIFO queues do not have the same level of performance.
You can order messages with SQS standard, but it’s on you to do it.
This ensures messages are processed one by one.
It costs more since AWS must spend compute power to deduplicate messages.

SNS
What Is SNS? SNS is a push-based messaging service. It will proactively deliver messages to the endpoints subscribed to it. This can be used to alert a system or a person.

SNS Settings
Subscribers - Kinesis Data Firehose, SQS, Lambda, email, HTTP(S), SMS, platform application endpoint
Message Size - Messages can be up to 256 KB of text in any format
DLQ Support - Messages that fail to be delivered can be stored in an SQS DLQ
FIFO or Standard - FIFO only supports SQS as a subscriber
Encryption - Messages are encrypted in transit by default, but you can add at-rest
Access Policy  - A resource policy can be added to a topic, similar to S3

Alerts = SNS You’ll see SNS used in a variety of solutions on the exam. Anytime you see a need for someone to know an AWS event happened, SNS will be the service to deliver that notification.

Anytime you see this word, think SNS.
SNS and CloudWatch are best friends and the easiest way to alert you that something happened.
You’ll need to know all the subscriber options.
SNS will only retry HTTP(S) endpoints, but nothing else.

API GateWay 
What Is API Gateway? Amazon API Gateway is a fully managed service that allows you to easily publish, create, maintain, monitor, and secure your API. It allows you to put a safe “front door” on your application.

This service allows you to easily protect your endpoints by attaching a web application firewall (WAF).
Users can easily implement DDoS protection and rate limiting to curb abuse of their endpoints
API Gateway is simple to get started with. Easily build out the calls that will kick off other AWS services in your account.

APIs Are the Front Door API Gateway is a secure and safe front door for your application. It is the preferred method to get API calls into your application and AWS environment. You should favor answers that include API Gateway over those that hardcode access and secret keys

Anytime the exam talks about creating or managing an API, think API Gateway
You can front API Gateway with a web application firewall (WAF).
API Gateway supports versioning of your API.
Using API Gateway stops you from baking credentials into your code

When EC2 is better than Margate.
Sometimes, EC2 is the best choice!
Custom AMIs can only be ran via EC2.
Anything needing more than four vCPUs needs to use EC2
EC2 is recommended for anything needing more than 30 GiB of memory.
If your jobs require a GPU, then it must be on EC2! Arm-based Graviton CPU can only be leveraged via EC2 for AWS Batch.
When using linuxParameters parameters, you must run on EC2 compute.
For a large number of jobs, it's best to run on EC2. Dispatched at a higher rate (more concurrency) than Fargate!

AWS Step Functions
What Is AWS Step Functions? Serverless orchestration service meant for event-driven task executions using AWS services. Comes with a graphical interface.
Execution Types - Standard workflows are good for long-running, auditable executions. Express workflows are good for high-event-rate executions.
Amazon States Language - All state machines are written in the Amazon States Language format.
States - States are elements within your state machines. These are things and actions that happen with workflows.
Many Integrations - So many AWS service integrations available! Common ones are AWS Lambda, API Gateway, and Amazon EventBridge.
State Types - There are currently eight different state types: Pass, Task, Choice, Wait, Succeed, Fail, Parallel, and Map.

==========================
What Is Athena? Athena is an interactive query service that makes it easy to analyze data in S3 using SQL. This allows you to directly query data in your S3 bucket without loading it into a database.

What Is Glue? Glue is a serverless data integration service that makes it easy to discover, prepare, and combine data. It allows you to perform ETL workloads without managing underlying servers.

If you’re ever faced with a scenario that’s looking for a serverless SQL solution, Athena is your best choice. It’s the only service that allows you to directly query your data that’s stored in S3. This is a common big data scenario on the exam

What is OpenSearch? OpenSearch is a managed service allowing you to run search and analytics engines for various use cases. It is the successor to Amazon Elasticsearch Service.

Amazon OpenSearch Service ❤ Logs If you’re given a scenario on the exam that talks about creating a logging solution involving visualization of log file analytics or BI reports, there’s a good chance OpenSearch will be included. Know that it is used as a managed analytics and visualization service. AWS may still reference its predecessor, Elasticsearch. The same concepts apply!

=====================

Serverless 

Let’s Go Serverless! On the exam, focus on answers that move away from unmanaged architecture like EC2. It’s almost always better to select an answer on the text that uses Lambda or containers rather than a traditional operating system.

What Is Lambda? AWS Lambda is a serverless compute service that lets you run code without provisioning or managing the underlying servers. It’s like you’re running code without computers.

Building a Function 
01. Runtime - You’ll need to pick from an available runtime or bring your own. This is the environment your code will run in. 
02. Permissions - If your Lambda function needs to make an AWS API call, you’ll need to attach a role.
03. Networking - You can (optionally) define the VPC, subnet, and security groups your functions are a part of.
04. Resources - Defining the amount of available memory will allocate how much CPU and RAM your code gets.
05. Trigger - What’s going to alert your Lambda function to start? Defining a trigger will kick Lambda off if that event occurs.

Lambda Is the Answer One of the most common ways you’re going to see Lambda used is to“add” features to AWS. If you need to automatically remove entries from a security group, start and stop instances, or do anything else that isn’t built in, the answer is most likely going to be to use Lambda to achieve that.

===============

Containers 

Why ECS?
Management of Containers at Scale - ECS can manage 1, 10, hundreds, or thousands of containers. It will appropriately place the containers and keep them online.
ELB Integration - Containers are appropriately registered with the load balancers as they come online and go offline.
Role Integration - Containers can have individual roles attached to them, making security a breeze.
Ease of Use - Extremely easy to set up and scale to handle any workload.

What is EKS? Please define 

How do we decide when to pick ECS or EKS?
ECS - Proprietary AWS container management solution. Best used when you’re all in on AWS and looking for something simple.
EKS - AWS-managed version of opensource Kubernetes container management solution. Best used when you’re not all in on AWS. More work to configure and integrate with AWS.

ECS Is Preferred ECS and containers go hand in hand on the exam. If you see containers mentioned, you should think ECS. The only exception to this is if the question is asking about open source, Kubernetes, or running the container on-premises. In that situation, you’d want to select EKS

What Is Fargate ? AWS Fargate is a serverless compute engine for containers that works with both Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) and Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS).

AWS owns and manages infrastructure Requires use of ECS or EKS Linux -only workloads

EC2 - You are responsible for underlying operating system • EC2 pricing model • Long-running containers • Multiple containers share the same host

Fargate - No operating system access • Pay based on resources allocated and time ran • Short-running tasks • Isolated environments

Fargate Vs Lambda 

Fargate - Select Fargate when you have more consistent workloads. Allows Docker use across the organization and a greater level of control by developers.

Lambda - Great for unpredictable or inconsistent workloads. Perfect for applications that can be expressed as a single function.

Know the Use Cases Your best friend in the exam is knowing when to use Lambda vs. Fargate vs. EC2. It will serve you well to be able to walk through a quick use case of each one of those before you sit down to take the test.

What Is EventBridge? Amazon EventBridge (formerly known as CloudWatch Events) is a serverless event bus. It allows you to pass events from a source to an endpoint. Essentially, it’s the glue that holds your serverless application together.

Creating a Rule
01 -  Define Pattern : Do you want the rule to be invoked based on an event happening? Or do you want this to be scheduled?
02 - Select Event Bus: Is this going to be an AWS-based event? A custom event? Or a partner?
03 - Select Your Target: What happens when this event kicks off? Do you trigger a Lambda function? Post to an SQS queue? Send an email?
04 - Tag, Tag, Tag!: It can’t be stressed enough: You need to tag everything.
05 - Sit Back - Wait for the event to happen! Or kick it off yourself to make sure it’s working correctly.

EventBridge Is the Glue Do you want to trigger an action based on something that happened in AWS? EventBridgecan do that for you. EventBridge holds together a serverless application and Lambda functions. Any API call that happens in AWS can alert a Lambda function, or a variety of different endpoints, that something has happened.

Storing Custom Docker Images in Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR)
AWS-managed container image registry that offers secure, scalable, and reliable infrastructure
Private container image repositories with resource-based permissions via IAM
Supports Open Container Initiative (OCI images, Docker images, and OCI artifacts.

Registry - A private registry provided to each AWS account; create one or more for image storage
Authorization Token - Authentication token required for pushing and pulling images to and from registries
Repository - Contains all of your Docker images, OCI images, and OCI artifacts
Repository Policy - Control all access to repos and images
Image - Container images that get pushed to and pulled from your repository
Amazon ECR Public is a similar service for public image repositories.

Please define and give some example on X-ray

=================

What Is CloudTrail? AWS CloudTrail increases visibility into your user and resource activity by recording AWS Management Console actions and API calls.

You can identify which users and accounts called AWS, the source IP address from which the calls were made, and when the calls occurred.

Think of CloudTrail as CCTV monitoring for your AWS account.

CloudTrail Remember that CloudTrail is basically just CCTV for your AWS account. It logs all API calls made to your AWS account and stores these logs in S3.

AWS Shield FREE DDOS PROTECTION Protects all AWS customers on Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), Amazon CloudFront, and Route 53. Protects against SYN/UDP floods, reflection attacks, and other Layer 3 and Layer 4 attacks.

AWS Shield Advanced Provides enhanced protections for your applications running on Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), Amazon CloudFront, and Route 53 against larger and more sophisticated attacks. Offers always-on, flow-based monitoring of network traffic and active application monitoring to provide near real-time notifications of DDoS attacks. Gives you 24/7 access to the DDoS Response Team (DRT) to help manage and mitigate application-layer DDoS attacks. What Is Shield Advanced? PROTECTING APPLICATIONS WITH SHIELD Protects your AWS bill against higher fees due to Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), Amazon CloudFront, and Amazon Route 53 usage spikes during a DDoS attack

Shield Protects Against Layer 3 and Layer 4 Only Remember what Shield is at a high level and that it’s used to protect against DDoS. If you see a scenario question talking about DDoS mitigation or protection against Layer 3 and Layer 4 attacks, think AWS Shield. Advanced costs $3,000 USD a month but will give you a dedicated 24/7 DDoS Response Team.

AWS WAF 
What Is AWS WAF? AWS WAF is a web application firewall that lets you monitor the HTTP and HTTPS requests that are forwarded to Amazon CloudFront or an Application Load Balancer.  AWS WAF also lets you control access to your content.

AWS WAF The Application Load Balancer or CloudFront will either allow this content to be received or give an HTTP 403 status code.

AWS WAF operates at Layer 7

Allow all requests except the ones you specify. 1 Block all requests except the ones you specify. 2 Count the requests that match the properties you specify. 3

You can define conditions by using characteristics of web requests such as the following: IP addresses that requests originate from Country that requests originate from Values in request headers Presence of SQL code that is likely to be malicious (known as SQL injection) Presence of a script that is likely to be malicious (known as cross-site scripting) Strings that appear in requests — either specific strings or strings that match regular expression (regex) patterns

WAF Operates at Layer 7 In the exam, you will get scenario-based questions asking how to block Layer 7 attacks. Always think of WAF whenever you hear the term Layer 7. WAF can block Layer 7 DDoS attacks as well as things like SQL injections and cross-site scripting. If you need to block access to specific countries or IP addresses, you can also achieve this using AWS WAF.

What Is Firewall Manager? Firewall Manager is a security management service in a single pane of glass. This allows you to centrally set up and manage firewall rules across multiple AWS accounts and applications in AWS Organizations.

Manage Security across Multiple Accounts Using Firewall Manager, you can create new AWS WAF rules for your Application Load Balancers, API gateways, and Amazon CloudFront distributions. You can also mitigate DDoS attacks using AWS Shield Advanced for your Application Load Balancers, Elastic IP addresses, CloudFront distributions, and more

AWS Firewall Manager See a scenario about multiple AWS accounts and resources that need to be secured centrally? EXAM TIPS Think AWS Firewall Manager!

Amazon GuardDuty • Unusual API calls, calls from a known malicious IP • Attempts to disable CloudTrail logging • Unauthorized deployments • Compromised instances • Reconnaissance by would-be attackers • Port scanning, failed logins

GuardDuty Features • Alerts appear in the GuardDuty console and CloudWatch Events • Receives feeds from third parties like Proofpoint and CrowdStrike, as well as AWS Security, about known malicious domains and IP addresses, etc. • Monitors CloudTrail logs, VPC Flow Logs, and DNS logs

GuardDuty Features • Centralize threat detection across multiple AWS accounts • Automated response using CloudWatch Events and Lambda • Machine learning and anomaly detection

Threat Detection with AI 7-14 days to set a baseline — what is normal behavior on your account? Once active, you will see findings on the GuardDuty console and in CloudWatch Events only if GuardDuty detects behavior it considers a threat.

GuardDuty Exam Tips Remember what GuardDuty is and what it allows you to do. Uses AI to learn what normal behavior looks like in your account and to alert you of any abnormal or malicious behavior. Updates a database of known malicious domains using external feeds from third parties. Monitors CloudTrail logs, VPC Flow Logs, and DNS logs. Findings appear in the GuardDuty dashboard. CloudWatch Events can be used to trigger a Lambda function to address a threat.

Macie 
Macie uses machine learning and pattern matching to discover sensitive data stored in S3.
Automated Analysis of Data • Uses AI to recognize if your S3 objects contain sensitive data, such as PII, PHI, and financial data • Alerts you to unencrypted buckets • Alerts you about public buckets • Can also alert you about buckets shared with AWS accounts outside of those defined in your AWS organizations • Great for frameworks like HIPAA and GDPR

Macie Exam Tips Remember what Macie is and what it allows you to do. Macie uses AI to analyze data in S3 and helps identify PII, PHI, and financial data. Great for HIPAA and GDPR compliance as well as preventing identity theft. Macie alerts can be sent to Amazon EventBridge and integrated with your event management systems. Automate remediation actions using other AWS services, such as Step Functions.

What Is Amazon Inspector? Amazon Inspector is an automated security assessment service that helps improve the security and compliance of applications deployed on AWS. Amazon Inspector automatically assesses applications for vulnerabilities or deviations from best practices.

Assessment Findings After performing an assessment, Amazon Inspector produces a detailed list of security findings prioritized by level of severity. These findings can be reviewed directly or as part of detailed assessment reports that are available via the Amazon Inspector console or API.

Inspector Going into the exam, remember what Inspector is: It’s used to perform vulnerability scans on both EC2 instances and VPCs. These are called host assessments and network assessments. You can run these assessments once or, alternatively, run them weekly

What Is KMS? AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS is a managed service that makes it easy for you to create and control the encryption keys used to encrypt your data.

Integration AWS KMS is integrated with other AWS services — such as EBS, S3, and RDS as well as other services to make it simple to encrypt your data with encryption keys you manage

Controlling Your Keys AWS KMS provides you with centralized control over the lifecycle and permissions of your keys. You can create new keys whenever you wish, and you can control who can manage keys separately from who can use them.

CMK A customer master key (CMK is a logical representation of a master key. The CMK includes metadata, such as the key ID, creation date, description, and key state. The CMK also contains the key material used to encrypt and decrypt data.

Getting Started You start using the service by requesting the creation of a CMK. You control the lifecycle of the CMK as well as who can use or manage it.

Key Rotation You can choose to have AWS KMS automatically rotate CMKs every year, provided that those keys were generated within AWS KMS HSMs. Automatic key rotation is not supported for imported keys, asymmetric keys, or keys generated in an AWS CloudHSM cluster using the AWS KMS custom key store feature.

Policies The primary way to manage access to your AWS KMS CMKs is with policies. Policies are documents that describe who has access to what. Policies attached to an IAM identity are called identitybased policies (or IAM policies), and policies attached to other kinds of resources are called resource-based policies.

CloudHSM AWS CloudHSM is a cloud-based HSM that enables you to easily generate and use your own encryption keys on the AWS Cloud. It is a physical device, entirely dedicated to you, that can be deployed in a highly available fashion.

KMS vs CloudHSM 
KMS • Shared tenancy of underlying hardware • Automatic key rotation • Automatic key generation

CloudHSM • Dedicated HSM to you • Full control of underlying hardware • Full control of users, groups, keys, etc. • No automatic key rotation


AWS KMS AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) is a managed service that makes it easy for you to create and control the encryption keys used to encrypt your data. You start using the service by requesting the creation of a CMK. You control the lifecycle of the CMK as well as who can use or manage it.

3 Ways to Generate a CMK
AWS creates the CMK for you. The key material for a CMK is generated within HSMs managed by AWS KMS.
Import key material from your own key management infrastructure and associate it with a CMK.
Have the key material generated and used in an AWS CloudHSM cluster as part of the custom key store feature in AWS KMS

3 ways to Control Permissions 
Use the key policy. Controlling access this way means the full scope of access to the CMK is defined in a single document (the key policy).
Use IAM policies in combination with the key policy. Controlling access this way enables you to manage all the permissions for your IAM identities in IAM.
Use grants in combination with the key policy. Controlling access this way enables you to allow access to the CMK in the key policy, as well as allow users to delegate their access to others.

What Is Secrets Manager? STORING YOUR SECRETS IN SECRETS MANAGER Secrets Manager is a service that securely stores, encrypts, and rotates your database credentials and other secrets. • Encryption in transit and at rest using KMS • Automatically rotates credentials • Apply fine-grained access control using IAM policies • Costs money but is highly scalable

Secrets Manager Exam Tips Secrets Manager can be used to securely store your application secrets: database credentials, API keys, SSH keys, passwords, etc. Applications use the Secrets Manager API. Rotating credentials is super easy — but be careful! When enabled, Secrets Manager will rotate credentials immediately. Make sure all your application instances are configured to use Secrets Manager before enabling credential rotation.

Parameter Store Parameter Store is a capability of AWS Systems Manager that provides secure, hierarchical storage for configuration data management and secrets management. You can store data such as passwords, database strings, Amazon Machine Image (AMI IDs, and license codes as parameter values. You can store values as plain text or encrypted data

Parameter Store or Secrets Manager? In the exam, you will get scenario-based questions asking if you should use Parameter Store or Secrets Manager. If you are trying to minimize cost, choose Parameter Store. If you need more than 10,000 parameters, key rotation, or the ability to generate passwords using CloudFormation, use Secrets Manager

What Is AWS Certificate Manager? AWS Certificate Manager allows you to create, manage, and deploy public and private SSL certificates for use with other AWS services. It integrates with other services — such as Elastic Load Balancing, CloudFront distributions, and API Gateway — allowing you to easily manage and deploy SSL certificates in your AWS environment.

Benefits of AWS Certificate Manager Cost No more paying for SSL certificates! AWS Certificate Manager provisions both public and private certificates for free. You will still pay forthe resources that utilize your certificates (such as Elastic Load Balancing). Automated Renewals and Deployment Certificate Manager can automate the renewal of your SSL certificate and then automatically update the new certificate with ACM-integrated services, such as Elastic Load Balancing, CloudFront, and API Gateway. Easier to Set Up Removes a lot of the manual process, such as generating a key pair or creating a certificate signing request (CSR). You can create your own SSL certificate with just a few clicks in the AWS Management Console. 1 2

AWS Certificate Manager Know What It Is: In the exam, you will get scenario-based questions around SSL certificates and what services you should use to integrate SSL certificates. Supported Services: AWS Certificate Manager integrates with Elastic Load Balancing, CloudFront, and API Gateway. Benefits: AWS Certificate Manager is a free service that saves time and money. Automatically renew your SSL certificates and rotate the old certificates with new certificates with supported AWS services.

What Is Audit Manager? With it, you can continually audit your AWS usage to make sure you stay compliant with industry standards and regulations. Audit Manager is an automated service that produces reports specific to auditors for PCI compliance, GDPR, and more.

Continuous Audits with AWS Audit Manager If you have a scenario question about HIPAA or GDPR compliance that asks about continuous auditing or automating auditing reports… Think AWS Audit Manager.

AWS Artifact This comes up in the exam quite a bit and is often used as a distractor. You simply have to know what it is. See a scenario question asking about audits and the need for compliance reports? Think AWS Artifact.

What Is Detective? Using Detective, you can analyze, investigate, and quickly identify the root cause of potential security issues or suspicious activities. Detective pulls data in from your AWS resources and uses machine learning, statistical analysis, and graph theory to build a linked set of data that enables you to quickly figure out the root cause of your security issues.

Detective Sources Detective uses a number of sources within your AWS account (including VPC Flow Logs, CloudTrail logs, Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service audit logs, and Amazon GuardDuty findings) to automatically create an overview of your users, resources, and the interactions between them over time.

Amazon Detective Detective operates across multiple AWS services and analyzes the root cause of an event. Do not confuse this with Inspector, which is an automated vulnerability management service that continually scans EC2 and container workloads for software vulnerabilities and unintended network exposure. Detective can be a distractor.

What Is AWS Network Firewall? Network Firewall is a managed service that makes it easy to deploy physical firewall protection across your VPCs. It has a managed infrastructure (i.e., a physical firewall that is managed by AWS . Network Firewall includes a firewall rules engine that gives you complete control over your network traffic, allowing you to do things such as block outbound Server Message Block (SMB requests to stop the spread of malicious activity.

Benefits of Network Firewall Network Firewall has physical infrastructure in the AWS datacenter that is managed by AWS staff — so you don’t need to worry about management overheads. AWS Network Firewall works with AWS Firewall Manager, so you can centrally manage security policies across existing and newly created accounts and VPCs. It also provides an intrusion prevention system (IPS that gives you active traffic flow inspection.

AWS Network Firewall If you have a scenario question about filtering your network traffic before it reaches your internet gateway, or if you require intrusion prevention systems or any hardware firewall requirements… Think AWS Network Firewall.

What Is Security Hub? Security Hub is a single place to view all your security alerts from services like Amazon GuardDuty, Amazon Inspector, Amazon Macie, and AWS Firewall Manager. It works across multiple accounts

Security Hub If you have a scenario question about a single place to view all your security alerts across multiple AWS security services and accounts… Think AWS Security Hub.

======================

Immutable Architecture CloudFormation is perfect for creating immutable architecture. When you create resources using CloudFormation, you can easily pick that template up and run it anywhere you want. This consistency is something you’ll want to keep in mind during the exam

CloudFormation BONUS TIP Contrary to the popular childhood rhyme, stepping on a crack will not in fact break your mother’s back. Feel free to step on all the sidewalk cracks you’d like. You’ll need to know the layout of a CloudFormation template and what the sections do. Basics If it finds an error, CloudFormation rolls back to the last known good state. Troubleshooting CloudFormation can easily create and destroy your entire architecture.

Cross-Region CloudFormation makes the same API calls you make manually.
Hard-coded values and resource IDs can be the reason templates fail to create

ElasticBeanstack 

What Is PaaS? Platform as a Service (PaaS) is a single-stop application deployment model. You bring your code, and the provider builds everything for you, deploys your application, and then manages it going forward.

Elastic Beanstalk The Amazon PaaS tool Automation Elastic Beanstalk automates all your deployments. You can templatize what you’d like your environment to look like. Deployment Management It will handle all your deployments. You can upload your code, test your code in a staging environment, and then deploy to production. Elastic Beanstalk will handle building out the insides of your EC2 instances for you. You don’t have to get on the hosts yourself.

Elastic Beanstalk Is Easy Scenarios on the exam that are looking for simple one-stop solutions would benefit from Elastic Beanstalk. The approach of “bring your code and that’s it” means you have to do very little work to spin something up.

Elastic Beanstalk BONUS TIP If you ever find damaged money, a bank will replace it for you as long as you have more than 51%. Beanstalk handles it all! There’s very little you need to do. PaaS It’s a great solution to start with, but in general it’s only for simpler web applications. Hand Holding Supports containers, Windows, and Linux applications. You don’t have to memorize them all. Platform Types It’s not serverless. Beanstalk is creating and managing standard EC2 architecture.

What Is Systems Manager? Systems Manager is a suite of tools designed to let you view, control, and automate both your AWS architecture and on-premises resources.

Parts Are Bigger Than the Whole Systems Manager will rarely be called out by name. Instead, the names of the features will be used. For example, using Automation documents to fix S3 bucket permissions or using Session Manager to connect to an instance. 

Systems Manager BONUS TIP If you’re ever attacked by a bear, it’s best to play dead. Lay flat on your stomach with your fingers interlocked over your neck. Spread your elbows and legs so it’s harder for the bear to roll you over. Systems Manager can manage both on-premises and cloud architecture. On-Site Support If an admin can do it, Systems Manager can as well. Unpaid SysAdmin Generally, knowing it can patch, update, and configure instances is good enough. Overview Required These are usable by AWS Config to enforce architecture state.

==================

Caching Overview 

Where can we cache in our AWS applications?
External - We can cache data that’s going to be returned to our users (e.g., images, videos, and static content)
 Internal - Caching is an important tool we can use to speed up our databases. The less we talk to the database, the better.

AWS CACHING OPTIONS CloudFront ElastiCache DAX Global Accelerator

AWS ♡ Caches Whenever possible, pick an answer that includes a caching solution. AWS loves to put caches in every possible location. We’ll explore the various types, so keep an eye out for them when you’re taking the test.

Caches BONUS TIP Before you trim a hedge, lay down some old sheets underneath it. This will make collecting the trimmings much easier. Caches go in front of everything! Caches, Caches Everywhere There are other benefits than decreasing latency. Speed It’s important to know which type to use in each situation. Internal vs. External

CloudFront

What Is CloudFront? CloudFront is a fast content delivery network (CDN) service that securely delivers data, videos, applications, and APIs to customers globally. It helps reduce latency and provide higher transfer speeds using AWS edge locations.

Important CloudFront Settings Defaults to HTTPS connections with the ability to add custom SSL certificate Security Can be used to front AWS endpoints along with nonAWS applications Endpoint Support You can’t pick specific countries — just general areas of the globe Global Distribution You can force an expiration of content from the cache if you can’t wait for the TTL Expiring Content

CloudFront Fixes All Connection Issues While the real world is much more nuanced, on the exam every sort of external customer performance issue can be solved by putting CloudFront in front of your application. Slow connectivity from across the globe? Images or videos aren’t loading fast enough? CloudFront to the rescue!

CloudFront BONUS TIP If you’re trying to melt snow while on a hike, add some water to the pot. It will dramatically reduce the time it takes for the snow to melt. CloudFront’s main purpose is to cache content at the edge locations to speed up delivery of data. Speedy It can be used to block individual countries, but the WAF is a better tool for it. Blocking Connections This CDN works for both AWS and on-site architecture. On-Site Support You cannot pick specific edge locations for your distributions. All the Locations

ElastiCache and DAX

What Is ElastiCache? ElastiCache is a managed version of 2 opensource technologies: Memcached and Redis. Neither of these tools are specific to AWS, but by using ElastiCache you avoid a lot of common issues you might encounter

Memcached - Simple database caching solution • Not a database by itself • No failover or Multi-AZ support • No backups
Redis - Supported as a caching solution • Functions as a standalone database • Failover and Multi-AZ support • Supports backups

DynamoDB Accelerator (DAX) In-Memory Cache DAX can reduce DynamoDB response times from milliseconds to microseconds. 1 Location, Location, Location This cache is highly available and lives inside the VPC you specify. 2 You’re in Control You determine the node size and count for the cluster, TTL for the data, and maintenance windows for changes and updates.

DAX vs ElasticCache 
What type of cache should you be using? This is specific to DynamoDB and can only be used when storing data in this service. ElastiCache gives you a bit more flexibility. It can front just about any database, but really excels being placed in front of RDS

Put a Cache on It! On the exam, favor answers that include a database caching solution. You’ll need to know when each one is applicable, but they can generally be applied on the test in just about every situation.

ElastiCache and DAX BONUS TIP If you’re ever trying to build an emergency shelter, don’t forget to build a floor. Most people underestimate how much heat the ground will draw from your body when you’re sleeping. On the exam, always favor answers that include a database caching solution. Always Cache Redis can be more than just a cache — it can be a standalone database as well. More Than a Cache The exam won’t dive too deeply into any one caching solution. Keep It High Leve

Fixing IP Caching with Global Accelerator

What Is Global Accelerator? Global Accelerator is a networking service that sends your users’ traffic through AWS’s global network infrastructure. It can increase performance and help deal with IP caching.

3 Top Features 2 3 1 As your applications grow and change, and deployments happen, your users won’t notice. They will use the same IPs no matter what. Masks Complex Architecture Traffic is routed through AWS’s global network infrastructure. Speeds Things Up You can create weighted groups behind the IPs to test out new features or handle failure in your environment. Weighted Pools

Accelerator Solves IP Caching If you see a scenario on the exam talking about IP caching, you’ll want to think Global Accelerator. Those 2 static IP addresses you’re assigned will solve the problem of users not being able to access the proper endpoint because some of your architecture failed and the IP changed behind the scenes.

Global Accelerator BONUS TIP Make sure you bring a pair of sunglasses out on your next trip to the mountain. Sun reflecting off the snow can easily cause “snow blindness.” It uses edge locations to help speed everything up. Speed You’re provided 2 IPs that don’t change. You can also bring your own. 2 Static IPs You can easily create different weighted groups in each region your architecture lives in. Weighting

====================

Managing Accounts with Organizations

What Is Organizations? AWS Organizations is a free governance tool that allows you to create and manage multiple AWS accounts. With it, you can control your accounts from a single location rather than jumping from account to account.

Key Features in Organizations The primary account pays the bills. Consolidated Billing It’s best practice to create a specific account dedicated to logging. CloudTrail supports logs aggregation. Logging Accounts Easily create and destroy new AWS accounts. Programmatic Creation RIs can be shared across all accounts. Reserved Instances SCPs can limit users’ permissions. Service Control Policies

SCP Once implemented, these policies will be applied to every single resource inside an account. They are the ultimate way to restrict permissions, and even apply to the root account.

Logs and SCPs You’ll be given scenarios about wanting to ensure logs are centralized and no one can edit or delete them. When these come up, make sure to select a solution that uses Organizations to centralize your logs and SCPs to restrict anyone from making changes to them

Organizations BONUS TIP If you sign up for an online account, use the company’s name as your middle name. That way you can easily tell if they sell your information. SCPs are the best way to have the final say in what you can do in your AWS account. Control It’s important to know you can designate a single AWS account to hold your logs. CloudTrail Billing can easily roll up to a single account for payment. Cost RIs can be shared across accounts. This allows you to have one “billing” account to hold the RIs. Sharing RIs

What Is AWS RAM? AWS Resource Access Manager (RAM) is a free service that allows you to share AWS resources with other accounts and within your organization. AWS RAM allows you to easily share resources rather than having to create duplicate copies in your different account

What Can Be Shared Using AWS RAM? VPC subnets Transit gateways License Manager Dedicated Hosts Route 53 Resolver And many mor

RAM vs. VPC Peering When should you use VPC peering or RAM? Are you sharing resources within the same region? Use RAM. Are you sharing across regions? Use VPC peering. If RAM isn’t available and VPC peering is, that’s still a great option!

AWS RAM BONUS TIP If you sign up for an online account, use the company’s name as your middle name. That way you can easily tell if they sell your information. Sharing resources means you don’t have to duplicate them. Sharing RAM is free, but the user creating the architecture pays. Paying VPC peering excels when you’re connecting 2 separate networks. VPC Peering RAM easily allows organizations to share architecture. Organizations

Setting up Cross-Account Role Access

Cross-Account Role Access As the number of AWS accounts you manage increases, you’ll need to set up cross-account access. Duplicating IAM accounts creates a security vulnerability. Cross-account role access gives you the ability to set up temporary access you can easily control.

Roles Are Your Friend Anytime credentials are mentioned, scan the answers looking for roles. In the exam, it is preferred to create cross-account roles rather than additional IAM users.

Cross-Account Roles BONUS TIP If you own a house, poke your head in the crawl space once a month. It’s a great way to catch leaks or other problems before they escalate. Use. Roles. Everywhere. This is the single most important piece of advice for the exam. Everywhere You’ll need to know you can set this up, but you don’t need to know the specifics. Theory Any temporary employees get role access, and that’s it. No permanent credentials. Auditing Remember: Role assumption is temporary. You can’t permanently assume a role. Temporary

Inventory Management with AWS Config

What Is Config? Config is an inventory management and control tool. It allows you to show the history of your infrastructure along with creating rules to make sure it conforms to the best practices you’ve laid out.

Config = Standards In the exam, you should be looking for Config if the question lays out any type of standard that needs to be managed across your accounts. For example, you’d use Config to ensure your S3 buckets aren’t publicly readable or your users are using the approved AMI in their EC2 instances.

Config BONUS TIP If you’re cooking popcorn and burn it, you can use Bar Keepers Friend to remove the charcoal from the pot. Trust me. Config is the best way to check what standards are applied to your architecture. Standards You can use Automation documents or Lambda to enforce your standards. Enforcement You can track previously deleted AWS resources using Config. Deleted Resources You can roll up all your results to a single region. Consolidation

What Is Cost Explorer? AWS Cost Explorer is an easy-to-use tool that allows you to visualize your cloud costs. You can generate reports based on a variety of factors, including resource tags.

Service Easily break down costs on a serviceby-service basis. Filter Where is the spend coming from? Filter on tag, categories, etc. Time What was your bill last month? How about next month? Cost Explorer lets you build reports — lots and lots of reports.

Concerned about Cost? You won’t need to know it in depth, but for the exam it’s important to look out for answers that use Cost Explorer whenever a question talks about budgeting or controlling spend

Cost Explorer BONUS TIP Having trouble falling asleep? Try turning off your computer and putting your phone down a few hours before you go to sleep. Tags are one of the most important ways to track your spend. So👏 Many 👏 Tags Cost Explorer can estimate your spend for the upcoming month. Predictive Cost Explorer and Budgets go hand in hand. Budgets

What Is AWS Budgets? AWS Budgets allows organizations to easily plan and set expectations around cloud costs. You can easily track your ongoing spend and create alerts to let users know when they’re close to exceeding their allotted spend

4 Types There are 4 different types of budgets you can create. You get 2 free every month.
Saving Plans Budgets 4 Types There are 4 different types of budgets you can create. You get 2 free every month. “Are we being efficient with our RIs?” Reservation Budgets “How much are we using?” Usage Budgets “How much are we spending?”


Create a Budget It won’t come up in depth, as it’s a rather simple service, but you need to know you can create budgets. Users can be alerted on current spend or projected spend. You can create a budget using tags as a filter.

AWS Budgets BONUS TIP Tired of ads on your home network? Use Pi-hole to create a network-wide ad blocker. It’s great practice to create your own DNS server. Budgets are the best way to let users know they’re getting close to overspending. Alerts It’s best to be proactive. Once the money is spent, it’s gone. Proactive You can use Cost Explorer to create fine-grained budgets. Cost Explorer Tags can be used to create very specific budgets. Tags Galore

Optimizing Costs with AWS Cost and Usage Reports

Commonly Abbreviated as AWS CUR
Comprehensive Publish billing reports to Amazon S3 for centralized collection. Publish Break costs down by the time span (hour, day, and month), service and resource, or by tags. Breakdown
Daily CSV - AWS CUR updates reports in Amazon S3 buckets once a day using CSV formats.
Integrations - Easily integrate with Amazon Athena, Amazon Redshift, or Amazon QuickSigh

AWS CUR Use Cases OPTIMIZING COSTS WITH AWS COST AND USAGE REPORTS 1 Use within AWS Organizations for entire OU groups or individual member accounts. 2 Track Savings Plans utilizations, charges, and current allocations. 3 Monitor On-Demand capacity reservations. 4 Break down your AWS data transfer charges (external and inter-Region). 5 Dive deeper into cost allocation tag resource spending.

Comprehensive Exam Tips OPTIMIZING COSTS WITH AWS COST AND USAGE REPORTS Easily integrate with S3 for centralizing reports. Centralized Storage Query with Athena, ingest to Redshift, or visualize with QuickSight. AWS Integrations Mention of detailed cost breakdowns, delivery of daily usage reports, or tracking Savings Plans utilizations. Keywords and Scenarios Use within Organizations at organization level, OU level, or member ac

Most comprehensive and detailed view of your AWS spending.

Reducing Compute Spend Using Savings Plans and AWS Compute Optimizer

What is AWS Compute Optimizer? 
Optimizes Reports current usage optimizations and potential recommendations Reporting Provides graphical history data and projected utilization metrics Graphs Use graphs, metric data, and recommendations for moving or resizing resources Informed Decisions

Which resources does the service work with? Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling Groups Amazon EBS AWS Lambda

What Are Savings Plans? Offering of flexible pricing models for up to 72% savings on compute! Flexible Pricing Lower prices for EC2 instances regardless of instance family, size, OS, tenancy, or Regions. Lower Prices Savings can also apply to AWS Lambda and AWS Fargate usage. Variety Savings are provided as a trade for long-term commitments. There are one-year or threeyear pricing options. Commitments SageMaker plans for lowering Amazon SageMaker instance pricing. SageMaker Choose from All Upfront, Partial Upfront, or No Upfron

Savings Plans Types Three Different Plan Types Stricter savings plan Applies only to EC2 instances of a specific instance family in specific Regions Up to 72% savings EC2 Instance Savings Apply to SageMaker instances regardless of instance family or sizing Any Region and any component Up to 64% savings SageMaker Savings Most flexible savings plan Applies to any EC2 compute, Lambda, or Fargate usage Up to 66% savings on compute Compute Saving

AWS Compute Optimizer Exam Tips and Important Takeaways REDUCING COMPUTE SPEND USING SAVINGS PLANS AND AWS COMPUTE OPTIMIZER Amazon EC2, Auto Scaling groups, AWS Lambda, and Amazon EBS Optimizer Resources Flexible offerings for pricing on AWS compute usage; similar to Reserved Instances Savings Plans Compute Savings Plans, EC2 Instance Savings Plans, or SageMaker Savings Plans Plan Types Use for an organization in management account, at member account level, or a standalone account AWS Organizations One-year and three-year agreements All Upfront, Partial Upfront, or No Upfront

What Is Trusted Advisor? AWS Trusted Advisor is a fully managed best-practice auditing tool. It will scan 5 different parts of your account and look for places where you could improve your adoption of the recommended best practices provided by AWS

Cost Optimization: Are you spending money on resources that aren’t needed? Performance: Are your services configured properly? Security: Is your AWS architecture full of vulnerabilities? Fault Tolerance: Are you protected when something fails? Questions Trusted 5 Advisor Asks Service Limits: Do you have room to scale?

Automate a Response Focus on answers that have an automation component. It doesn’t have to fix the issue, but it should at least alert users that something is potentially wrong

Trusted Advisor BONUS TIP It’s much better to be friends with someone who owns a boat than to be the person who owns it. Something wrong? Tell someone! Use SNS to let users know. Alerts Trusted Advisor will not fix the problems for you. Limits To get the most useful checks, you’ll need a Business or Enterprise Support plan. Cost Use EventBridge (CloudWatch Events) to kick off Lambda to solve the problem for you. Automate

Enforcing Account Governance via AWS Control Tower

What Is AWS Control Tower? Easy way to set up and govern an AWS multi-account environment Governance Automates account creation and security controls via other AWS services Orchestration Extends AWS Organizations to prevent governance drift, and leverages different guardrails Extension Quickest way to create and manage a secure, compliant, multi-account environment based on best practices

Features and Terms to Know ENFORCING ACCOUNT GOVERNANCE VIA AWS CONTROL TOWER 1 Landing zone: Well-architected, multi-account environment based on compliance and security best practices 2 Guardrails: High-level rules providing continuous governance for the AWS environment 3 Account Factory: Configurable account template for standardizing pre-approved configs of new accounts 4 CloudFormation StackSet: Automated deployments of templates deploying repeated resources for governance 5 Shared accounts: Three accounts used by Control Tower created during landing zone creation

Governance Exam Tips Automate account deployment with preconfigured compliance rules Accounts Leverages service control policies to prevent noncompliant actions Preventive Guardrail Leverages AWS Config rules to detect and alert on violating actions or changes Detective Guardrail Management account, log archive account, and audit account Shared Accounts Automated multi-account governance, guardrails, account orchestration, and governed user account provisioning Keywords and Scenario

Optimizing Architectures with the AWS Well-Architected Tool
The Six Pillars Security Operational Excellence Cost Optimization Reliability Sustainability
The AWS Well-Architected Tool OPTIMIZING ARCHITECTURES WITH THE AWS WELL-ARCHITECTED TOOL 1 Provides a consistent process for measuring cloud architectures 2 Enables assistance with documenting workloads and architectures 3 Guides for making workloads reliable, secure, efficient, and cost effective 4 Measure workloads against years of AWS best practices 5 Intended for specific audiences, such as technical teams, CTOs, architecture, and operations teams

AWS Well-Architected Tool Exam Tips and Important Takeaways OPTIMIZING ARCHITECTURES WITH THE AWS WELL-ARCHITECTED TOOL Aids in documentation of workload and architecture decisions

==================

What Is Storage Gateway? Storage Gateway is a hybrid cloud storage service that helps you merge on-premises resources with the cloud. It can help with a one-time migration or a long-term pairing of your architecture with AWSStorage Gateway Is Hybrid Storage You’ll be given scenarios that ask you to pick a solution for data migration. When these come up, you need to keep Storage Gateway in mind. Anytime on-premises storage is mentioned, you should be thinking about which type of Storage Gateway can complement the existing architecture.

What Is DataSync? AWS DataSync is an agent-based solution for migrating on-premises storage to AWS. It allows you to easily move data between NFS and SMB shares and AWS storage solutions

DataSync Is a Migration Service You’ll be given scenarios that ask you to pick a solution for data migration. When these come up, keep DataSync in mind for a one-time migration. If you have hybrid architecture and want a continuous sync, think Storage Gateway

Use Case S3, EFS, and FSx are all supported locations for your data. Endpoints An agent needs to be installed on the architecture on your end to get it into AWS. Agent Based The exam won’t dive into the details of how to set this up or troubleshoot.


=================

Siddharth











